<languages/>

{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}

{{Manual:TOC}}

[https://www.freecad.org FreeCAD] is an open-source, free parametric 3D computer-aided design (CAD) modelling tool used to create objects ranging from simple designs to complex projects consisting of extensive assemblies of numerous parts. Due to its open-source nature, FreeCAD can be freely downloaded, distributed, modified, and used for both personal and commercial purposes. The source code is openly published under the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Lesser_General_Public_License LGPL] license. This makes FreeCAD an appealing option not only for relatively inexperienced users, such as hobbyists in the 3D printing world, but also for experienced users looking to experiment with a different parametric tool.

The software was initially released in its infancy in 2002. Since then, thanks to the continuous contributions from a devoted community of developers and users, FreeCAD has grown slowly but steadily. The passionate efforts of numerous contributors have not only improved FreeCAD's capabilities as a CAD tool but have also led to the development of additional functionalities in separate domains closely tied to the base FreeCAD suite. Some notable examples include the FEM workbench, which enables the execution of simple Finite Element Analysis, as well as the BIM workbench which offers Building Information Modeling (BIM) capabilities.

Deze gebruikershandleiding wordt opgesteld en bijgewerkt voor versie [[Release_notes_1.0|1.0]] van FreeCAD. Het doel ervan is om als leidraad te dienen voor mensen die FreeCAD willen gaan gebruiken voor hun projecten. Er is geen uitgebreide voorkennis van CAD-software vereist en de inhoud van deze handleiding is op een eenvoudige en uitgebreide manier georganiseerd, onderverdeeld in verschillende toepassingsgebieden. De handleiding bevat instructies met betrekking tot de installatie van FreeCAD, het gebruik van de belangrijkste  geïntegreerde ontwikkelomgeving en strekt zich uit tot complexere onderwerpen zoals Python-scripting. Er is naar gestreefd de informatie op een overzichtelijke, stapsgewijze manier te presenteren, compleet met afbeeldingen. Deze structuur zorgt ervoor dat zowel beginnende CAD-gebruikers als meer ervaren personen baat kunnen hebben bij het bestuderen van deze handleiding. De inhoud van deze handleiding is gepubliceerd onder de [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons 4.0]-licentie en mag vrij worden gebruikt, gedownload, gekopieerd en aangepast. De FreeCAD-handleiding wordt voortdurend verbeterd door ervaringen en bijdragen van gebruikers. Er is een [https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_manual_converter Python-script] beschikbaar om de nieuwste versie van deze handleiding om te zetten naar PDF- of EPUB-formaat voor offline lezen. 

Another valuable resource is the [[Main_Page|FreeCAD wiki]], where numerous contributors have added useful information covering every aspect of the software. Due to the wealth of information available, navigating and using the wiki can be somewhat challenging and overwhelming, especially for new users. For this reason, it is advised to first study the user manual, which offers a more streamlined and smooth introduction, before delving into the more extensive details available in the wiki. Finally, the [https://forum.freecad.org/ FreeCAD Forums] are also very helpful and provide additional support and insights.



{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}