<languages/>

{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}

{{Manual:TOC}}

[https://www.freecad.org FreeCAD], basit tasarımlardan çok sayıda parçadan oluşan kapsamlı montajlardan oluşan karmaşık projelere kadar nesneler oluşturmak için kullanılan açık kaynaklı, ücretsiz parametrik bir 3B bilgisayar destekli tasarım (CAD) modelleme aracıdır. Açık kaynaklı yapısı nedeniyle FreeCAD, kişisel ve ticari amaçlar için ücretsiz olarak indirilebilir, dağıtılabilir, değiştirilebilir ve kullanılabilir. Kaynak kodu, [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU LGPL] lisansı altında açıkça yayınlanmaktadır. Bu, FreeCAD'i yalnızca 3B baskı dünyasındaki hobi sahipleri gibi nispeten deneyimsiz kullanıcılar için değil, aynı zamanda farklı bir parametrik araçla deneme yapmak isteyen deneyimli kullanıcılar için de cazip bir seçenek haline getirir.

The software was initially released in its infancy in 2002. Since then, thanks to the continuous contributions from a devoted community of developers and users, FreeCAD has grown slowly but steadily. The passionate efforts of numerous contributors have not only improved FreeCAD's capabilities as a CAD tool but have also led to the development of additional functionalities in separate domains closely tied to the base FreeCAD suite. Some notable examples include the FEM workbench, which enables the execution of simple Finite Element Analysis, as well as the BIM workbench which offers Building Information Modeling (BIM) capabilities.

This user manual is being written and updated for version [[Release_notes_1.0|1.0]] of FreeCAD. Its purpose is to serve as a guide for individuals who wish to start using FreeCAD for their projects. No extensive prior knowledge of any CAD software is required, and the contents of this manual are organized in a straightforward and comprehensive manner, divided into various application areas. The guide includes instructions regarding the installation of FreeCAD, the use of its most prominent workbenches, and extends to more complex topics such as Python scripting. Efforts have been made to present the information in an organized, step-by-step fashion, complete with images. This structure ensures that both novice CAD users and more experienced individuals can benefit from studying this manual. The contents of this manual are published under the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons 4.0] license, and can be freely used, downloaded, copied, and modified. The FreeCAD Manual is continuously improved through user experiences and contributions. A [https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_manual_converter Python script] is available to convert the latest version of this manual into PDF or EPUB formats for offline reading. 

Another valuable resource is the [[Main_Page|FreeCAD wiki]], where numerous contributors have added useful information covering every aspect of the software. Due to the wealth of information available, navigating and using the wiki can be somewhat challenging and overwhelming, especially for new users. For this reason, it is advised to first study the user manual, which offers a more streamlined and smooth introduction, before delving into the more extensive details available in the wiki. Finally, the [https://forum.freecad.org/ FreeCAD Forums] are also very helpful and provide additional support and insights.



{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}